# Contributing guidelines

## Sign the CLA

Kubernetes projects require that you sign a Contributor License Agreement (CLA) before we can accept your pull requests.  Please see https://git.k8s.io/community/CLA.md for more info

## Contributing A Patch

1. Submit an issue describing your proposed change to the repo in question.
1. The [repo owners](OWNERS) will respond to your issue promptly.
1. If your proposed change is accepted, and you haven't already done so, sign a Contributor License Agreement (see details above).
1. Fork the desired repo, develop and test your code changes.
1. Submit a pull request.

## Development
Please go through [CSI Spec](https://github.com/container-storage-interface/spec/blob/master/spec.md) and [General CSI driver development guideline](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/developing.html) to get some basic understanding of CSI driver before you start.

### Requirements
* Golang 1.15.+
* [Ginkgo](https://github.com/onsi/ginkgo) in your PATH for integration testing and end-to-end testing
* Docker 17.05+ for releasing

### Dependency
Dependencies are managed through go module. To build the project, first turn on go mod using `export GO111MODULE=on`, then build the project using: `make`

### Testing
* To execute all unit tests, run: `make test`
* To execute sanity test run: `make test-sanity`
* To execute integration tests, run: `make test-integration`
* To execute e2e tests, run: `make test-e2e-single-az` and `make test-e2e-multi-az`

### Release Process
Please see [Release Process](./docs/release.md).

**Notes**:
* Sanity tests make sure the driver complies with the CSI specification
* EC2 instance is required to run integration test, since it is exercising the actual flow of creating EBS volume, attaching it and read/write on the disk. See [Integration Testing](./tests/integration/README.md) for more details.
* E2E tests exercises various driver functionalities in Kubernetes cluster. See [E2E Testing](./tests/e2e/README.md) for more details.

### Helm and manifests
The Helm chart for this project is in the `charts/aws-ebs-csi-driver` directory.  The manifests for this project are in the `deploy/kubernetes` directory.  All of the manifests except kustomize patches are generated by running `helm template`.  This keeps the Helm chart and the manifests in sync.

When updating the Helm chart:
* Generate manifests: `make generate-kustomize`
* There are values files in `deploy/kubernetes/values` used for generating some of the manifests
* When adding a new resource template to the Helm chart please update the `generate-kustomize` make target, the `deploy/kubernetes/values` files, and the appropriate kustomization.yaml file(s).