docs/modify-volume.md, before:

# Volume Modification

The EBS CSI Driver (starting from v1.19.0) supports volume modification through PVC annotations. This allows users to modify volume properties (e.g., volume type, IOPS, and throughput). 

## Installation
This feature is opt-in. 

To install this feature through the Helm chart, users must set `controller.volumeModificationFeature.enabled` in `values.yaml` to `true`.

This will install an additional sidecar (`volumemodifier`) that watches the Kubernetes API server for changes to PVC annotations and triggers an RPC call against the CSI driver.

## Usage

Users can specify the following PVC annotations:

- `ebs.csi.aws.com/volumeType`: to update the volume type
- `ebs.csi.aws.com/iops`: to update the IOPS
- `ebs.csi.aws.com/throughput`: to update the throughput

## Considerations

- Keep in mind the [6 hour cooldown period](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_ModifyVolume.html) for EBS ModifyVolume. Multiple ModifyVolume calls for the same volume within a 6 hour period will fail. 
- Ensure that the desired volume properties are permissible. The driver does minimum client side validation. 

## Example

#### 1) Create a PVC.


```
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: ebs-claim
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  storageClassName: ebs-sc
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 100Gi
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: ebs-sc
provisioner: ebs.csi.aws.com
volumeBindingMode: WaitForFirstConsumer
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: app
spec:
  containers:
  - name: app
    image: centos
    command: ["/bin/sh"]
    args: ["-c", "while true; do echo $(date -u) >> /data/out.txt; sleep 5; done"]
    volumeMounts:
    - name: persistent-storage
      mountPath: /data
  volumes:
  - name: persistent-storage
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: ebs-claim
```

#### 2) Verify the PVC is created.

```
$ k describe pvc ebs-claim
Name:          ebs-claim
Namespace:     default
StorageClass:  ebs-sc
Status:        Bound
Volume:        pvc-20c5ddec-5913-4b8d-a2fc-bfd0943b966d
Labels:        <none>
Annotations:   pv.kubernetes.io/bind-completed: yes
               pv.kubernetes.io/bound-by-controller: yes
               volume.beta.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner: ebs.csi.aws.com
               volume.kubernetes.io/selected-node: ip-192-168-32-79.ec2.internal
               volume.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner: ebs.csi.aws.com
Finalizers:    [kubernetes.io/pvc-protection]
Capacity:      100Gi
Access Modes:  RWO
VolumeMode:    Filesystem
Used By:       app
Events:
  Type     Reason                 Age              From                                                                                     Message
  ----     ------                 ----             ----                                                                                     -------
  Warning  ProvisioningFailed     6s               persistentvolume-controller                                                              storageclass.storage.k8s.io "ebs-sc" not found
  Normal   Provisioning           5s               ebs.csi.aws.com_ebs-csi-controller-b84fbbd88-5z66k_d2cb941a-aee8-41d6-aea5-8f4a40c7c82c  External provisioner is provisioning volume for claim "default/ebs-claim"
  Normal   ExternalProvisioning   4s (x2 over 5s)  persistentvolume-controller                                                              waiting for a volume to be created, either by external provisioner "ebs.csi.aws.com" or manually created by system administrator
  Normal   ProvisioningSucceeded  1s               ebs.csi.aws.com_ebs-csi-controller-b84fbbd88-5z66k_d2cb941a-aee8-41d6-aea5-8f4a40c7c82c  Successfully provisioned volume pvc-20c5ddec-5913-4b8d-a2fc-bfd0943b966d
```

#### 3) (Optional) Verify volume properties in EBS.

```
$ pv=$(k get -o json pvc ebs-claim | jq -r '.spec | .volumeName')
$ volumename=$(k get -o json pv $pv | jq -r '.spec | .csi | .volumeHandle')
$ aws ec2 describe-volumes —volume-ids $volumename | jq '.Volumes[] | "\(.VolumeType) \(.Iops) \(.Throughput)"'
"gp3 3000 125"
```

#### 4) Edit the PVC with annotations.

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: ebs-claim
  annotations:
	ebs.csi.aws.com/volumeType: "io2"
	ebs.csi.aws.com/iops: "4000"
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  storageClassName: ebs-sc
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 100Gi
```

#### 5) Verify the volume has been updated successfully.


```
$ k describe pvc ebs-claim
Name:          ebs-claim
Namespace:     default
StorageClass:  ebs-sc
Status:        Bound
Volume:        pvc-6bff47f9-1843-4576-ba15-158c73491e8c
Labels:        <none>
Annotations:   ebs.csi.aws.com/iops: 4000
               ebs.csi.aws.com/volumeType: io2
               pv.kubernetes.io/bind-completed: yes
               pv.kubernetes.io/bound-by-controller: yes
               volume.beta.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner: ebs.csi.aws.com
               volume.kubernetes.io/selected-node: ip-192-168-88-208.us-east-2.compute.internal
               volume.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner: ebs.csi.aws.com
Finalizers:    [kubernetes.io/pvc-protection]
Capacity:      100Gi
Access Modes:  RWO
VolumeMode:    Filesystem
Used By:       app
Events:
  Type     Reason                        Age                    From                                                                                      Message
  ----     ------                        ----                   ----                                                                                      -------
  Warning  ProvisioningFailed            7m51s                  persistentvolume-controller                                                               storageclass.storage.k8s.io "ebs-sc" not found
  Normal   WaitForPodScheduled           7m49s                  persistentvolume-controller                                                               waiting for pod app to be scheduled
  Normal   ExternalProvisioning          7m49s (x2 over 7m49s)  persistentvolume-controller                                                               waiting for a volume to be created, either by external provisioner "ebs.csi.aws.com" or manually created by system administrator
  Normal   Provisioning                  7m49s                  ebs.csi.aws.com_ebs-csi-controller-6bb6b754f7-kqpzm_27524e89-857b-4197-b801-e48576823e89  External provisioner is provisioning volume for claim "default/ebs-claim"
  Normal   ProvisioningSucceeded         7m46s                  ebs.csi.aws.com_ebs-csi-controller-6bb6b754f7-kqpzm_27524e89-857b-4197-b801-e48576823e89  Successfully provisioned volume pvc-6bff47f9-1843-4576-ba15-158c73491e8c
  Normal   VolumeModificationStarted     4s                     volume-modifier-for-k8s-ebs.csi.aws.com                                                   External modifier is modifying volume pvc-6bff47f9-1843-4576-ba15-158c73491e8c
  Normal   VolumeModificationSuccessful  1s                     volume-modifier-for-k8s-ebs.csi.aws.com                                                   External modifier has successfully modified volume pvc-6bff47f9-1843-4576-ba15-158c73491e8c
```

You will notice that the annotations have been applied to the PV as well.

```
$ k describe pv           
Name:              pvc-6bff47f9-1843-4576-ba15-158c73491e8c
Labels:            <none>
Annotations:       ebs.csi.aws.com/iops: 4000
                   ebs.csi.aws.com/volumeType: io2
                   pv.kubernetes.io/provisioned-by: ebs.csi.aws.com
                   volume.kubernetes.io/provisioner-deletion-secret-name: 
                   volume.kubernetes.io/provisioner-deletion-secret-namespace: 
Finalizers:        [kubernetes.io/pv-protection external-attacher/ebs-csi-aws-com]
StorageClass:      ebs-sc
Status:            Bound
Claim:             default/ebs-claim
Reclaim Policy:    Delete
Access Modes:      RWO
VolumeMode:        Filesystem
Capacity:          100Gi
Node Affinity:     
  Required Terms:  
    Term 0:        topology.ebs.csi.aws.com/zone in [us-east-2b]
Message:           
Source:
    Type:              CSI (a Container Storage Interface (CSI) volume source)
    Driver:            ebs.csi.aws.com
    FSType:            ext4
    VolumeHandle:      vol-02cb54d01c685b919
    ReadOnly:          false
    VolumeAttributes:      storage.kubernetes.io/csiProvisionerIdentity=1684161810754-8081-ebs.csi.aws.com
Events:                <none>
```

Do **NOT** delete these annotations. These annotations are used by the sidecar to reconcile the PVC's state when modifying annotations.

#### 6) (Optional) Validate the volume has been modified in EBS.
```
$ aws ec2 describe-volumes --volume-ids $volumename | jq '.Volumes[] | "\(.VolumeType) \(.Iops) \(.Throughput)"'
"io2 4000 null"
```

Commit message:

Add docs and example for VolumeAttributesClass
Signed-off-by: Connor Catlett <conncatl@amazon.com>

docs/modify-volume.md, after:

# Volume Modification

The EBS CSI Driver (starting from v1.19.0) supports volume modification through two methods:
- Via the standardized CSI RPC `ControllerModifyVolume` (on Kubernetes, this is done via [`VolumeAttributesClass`](https://github.com/awslabs/volume-modifier-for-k8s))
- Volume annotations via [`volume-modifier-for-k8s`](https://github.com/awslabs/volume-modifier-for-k8s)

## Installation

### `ControllerModifyVolume` via `VolumeAttributesClass` (Recommended)

`VolumeAttributesClass` support is controlled by the Kubernetes `VolumeAttributesClass` [feature gate](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/).

To use this feature, it must be enabled in the following places:
- `VolumeAttributesClass` feature gate on `kube-apiserver` (consult your Kubernetes distro's documentation)
- `storage.k8s.io/v1alpha1` enabled in `kube-apiserver` via [`runtime-config`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/enable-disable-api/) (consult your Kubernetes distro's documentation)
- `VolumeAttributesClass` feature gate on `kube-controller-manager` (consult your Kubernetes distro's documentation)
- `VolumeAttributesClass` feature gate on `external-provisioner` (add `--feature-gates=VolumeAttributesClass=true` to `sidecars.provisioner.additionalArgs` when using the EBS CSI Helm chart)
- `VolumeAttributesClass` feature gate on `kube-controller-manager` (add `--feature-gates=VolumeAttributesClass=true` to `sidecars.resizer.additionalArgs` when using the EBS CSI Helm chart)

For more information, see the [Kubernetes documentation for the feature](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volume-attributes-classes/).

### `volume-modifier-for-k8s`

To enable this feature through the Helm chart, users must set `controller.volumeModificationFeature.enabled` in `values.yaml` to `true`.

This will install an additional sidecar (`volumemodifier`) that watches the Kubernetes API server for changes to PVC annotations and triggers an RPC call against the CSI driver.

## Parameters

Users can specify the following modification parameters:

- `type`: to update the volume type
- `iops`: to update the IOPS
- `throughput`: to update the throughput

## Considerations

- Keep in mind the [6 hour cooldown period](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_ModifyVolume.html) for EBS ModifyVolume. Multiple ModifyVolume calls for the same volume within a 6 hour period will fail. 
- Ensure that the desired volume properties are permissible. The driver does minimum client side validation. 

## Example

### `ControllerModifyVolume` via `VolumeAttributesClass`

See the [EBS CSI example with manifests](../examples/kubernetes/modify-volume).

### `volume-modifier-for-k8s`

#### 1) Create a PVC.


```
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: ebs-claim
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  storageClassName: ebs-sc
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 100Gi
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: ebs-sc
provisioner: ebs.csi.aws.com
volumeBindingMode: WaitForFirstConsumer
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: app
spec:
  containers:
  - name: app
    image: centos
    command: ["/bin/sh"]
    args: ["-c", "while true; do echo $(date -u) >> /data/out.txt; sleep 5; done"]
    volumeMounts:
    - name: persistent-storage
      mountPath: /data
  volumes:
  - name: persistent-storage
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: ebs-claim
```

#### 2) Verify the PVC is created.

```
$ k describe pvc ebs-claim
Name:          ebs-claim
Namespace:     default
StorageClass:  ebs-sc
Status:        Bound
Volume:        pvc-20c5ddec-5913-4b8d-a2fc-bfd0943b966d
Labels:        <none>
Annotations:   pv.kubernetes.io/bind-completed: yes
               pv.kubernetes.io/bound-by-controller: yes
               volume.beta.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner: ebs.csi.aws.com
               volume.kubernetes.io/selected-node: ip-192-168-32-79.ec2.internal
               volume.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner: ebs.csi.aws.com
Finalizers:    [kubernetes.io/pvc-protection]
Capacity:      100Gi
Access Modes:  RWO
VolumeMode:    Filesystem
Used By:       app
Events:
  Type     Reason                 Age              From                                                                                     Message
  ----     ------                 ----             ----                                                                                     -------
  Warning  ProvisioningFailed     6s               persistentvolume-controller                                                              storageclass.storage.k8s.io "ebs-sc" not found
  Normal   Provisioning           5s               ebs.csi.aws.com_ebs-csi-controller-b84fbbd88-5z66k_d2cb941a-aee8-41d6-aea5-8f4a40c7c82c  External provisioner is provisioning volume for claim "default/ebs-claim"
  Normal   ExternalProvisioning   4s (x2 over 5s)  persistentvolume-controller                                                              waiting for a volume to be created, either by external provisioner "ebs.csi.aws.com" or manually created by system administrator
  Normal   ProvisioningSucceeded  1s               ebs.csi.aws.com_ebs-csi-controller-b84fbbd88-5z66k_d2cb941a-aee8-41d6-aea5-8f4a40c7c82c  Successfully provisioned volume pvc-20c5ddec-5913-4b8d-a2fc-bfd0943b966d
```

#### 3) (Optional) Verify volume properties in EBS.

```
$ pv=$(k get -o json pvc ebs-claim | jq -r '.spec | .volumeName')
$ volumename=$(k get -o json pv $pv | jq -r '.spec | .csi | .volumeHandle')
$ aws ec2 describe-volumes —volume-ids $volumename | jq '.Volumes[] | "\(.VolumeType) \(.Iops) \(.Throughput)"'
"gp3 3000 125"
```

#### 4) Edit the PVC with annotations.

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: ebs-claim
  annotations:
	ebs.csi.aws.com/volumeType: "io2"
	ebs.csi.aws.com/iops: "4000"
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  storageClassName: ebs-sc
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 100Gi
```

#### 5) Verify the volume has been updated successfully.


```
$ k describe pvc ebs-claim
Name:          ebs-claim
Namespace:     default
StorageClass:  ebs-sc
Status:        Bound
Volume:        pvc-6bff47f9-1843-4576-ba15-158c73491e8c
Labels:        <none>
Annotations:   ebs.csi.aws.com/iops: 4000
               ebs.csi.aws.com/volumeType: io2
               pv.kubernetes.io/bind-completed: yes
               pv.kubernetes.io/bound-by-controller: yes
               volume.beta.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner: ebs.csi.aws.com
               volume.kubernetes.io/selected-node: ip-192-168-88-208.us-east-2.compute.internal
               volume.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner: ebs.csi.aws.com
Finalizers:    [kubernetes.io/pvc-protection]
Capacity:      100Gi
Access Modes:  RWO
VolumeMode:    Filesystem
Used By:       app
Events:
  Type     Reason                        Age                    From                                                                                      Message
  ----     ------                        ----                   ----                                                                                      -------
  Warning  ProvisioningFailed            7m51s                  persistentvolume-controller                                                               storageclass.storage.k8s.io "ebs-sc" not found
  Normal   WaitForPodScheduled           7m49s                  persistentvolume-controller                                                               waiting for pod app to be scheduled
  Normal   ExternalProvisioning          7m49s (x2 over 7m49s)  persistentvolume-controller                                                               waiting for a volume to be created, either by external provisioner "ebs.csi.aws.com" or manually created by system administrator
  Normal   Provisioning                  7m49s                  ebs.csi.aws.com_ebs-csi-controller-6bb6b754f7-kqpzm_27524e89-857b-4197-b801-e48576823e89  External provisioner is provisioning volume for claim "default/ebs-claim"
  Normal   ProvisioningSucceeded         7m46s                  ebs.csi.aws.com_ebs-csi-controller-6bb6b754f7-kqpzm_27524e89-857b-4197-b801-e48576823e89  Successfully provisioned volume pvc-6bff47f9-1843-4576-ba15-158c73491e8c
  Normal   VolumeModificationStarted     4s                     volume-modifier-for-k8s-ebs.csi.aws.com                                                   External modifier is modifying volume pvc-6bff47f9-1843-4576-ba15-158c73491e8c
  Normal   VolumeModificationSuccessful  1s                     volume-modifier-for-k8s-ebs.csi.aws.com                                                   External modifier has successfully modified volume pvc-6bff47f9-1843-4576-ba15-158c73491e8c
```

You will notice that the annotations have been applied to the PV as well.

```
$ k describe pv           
Name:              pvc-6bff47f9-1843-4576-ba15-158c73491e8c
Labels:            <none>
Annotations:       ebs.csi.aws.com/iops: 4000
                   ebs.csi.aws.com/volumeType: io2
                   pv.kubernetes.io/provisioned-by: ebs.csi.aws.com
                   volume.kubernetes.io/provisioner-deletion-secret-name: 
                   volume.kubernetes.io/provisioner-deletion-secret-namespace: 
Finalizers:        [kubernetes.io/pv-protection external-attacher/ebs-csi-aws-com]
StorageClass:      ebs-sc
Status:            Bound
Claim:             default/ebs-claim
Reclaim Policy:    Delete
Access Modes:      RWO
VolumeMode:        Filesystem
Capacity:          100Gi
Node Affinity:     
  Required Terms:  
    Term 0:        topology.ebs.csi.aws.com/zone in [us-east-2b]
Message:           
Source:
    Type:              CSI (a Container Storage Interface (CSI) volume source)
    Driver:            ebs.csi.aws.com
    FSType:            ext4
    VolumeHandle:      vol-02cb54d01c685b919
    ReadOnly:          false
    VolumeAttributes:      storage.kubernetes.io/csiProvisionerIdentity=1684161810754-8081-ebs.csi.aws.com
Events:                <none>
```

Do **NOT** delete these annotations. These annotations are used by the sidecar to reconcile the PVC's state when modifying annotations.

#### 6) (Optional) Validate the volume has been modified in EBS.
```
$ aws ec2 describe-volumes --volume-ids $volumename | jq '.Volumes[] | "\(.VolumeType) \(.Iops) \(.Throughput)"'
"io2 4000 null"
```
