docs/options.md, before:

# Driver Options

There are a couple of driver options that can be passed as arguments when starting the driver container.

| Option argument             | value sample                                      | default                                             | Description         |
|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|---------------------|
| endpoint                    | tcp://127.0.0.1:10000/                            | unix:///var/lib/csi/sockets/pluginproxy/csi.sock    | The socket on which the driver will listen for CSI RPCs|
| http-endpoint               | :8080                                             |                                                     | The TCP network address where the HTTP server for metrics will listen (example: `:8080`). The default is empty string, which means the server is disabled.|
| volume-attach-limit         | 1,2,3 ...                                         | -1                                                  | Value for the maximum number of volumes attachable per node. If specified, the limit applies to all nodes. If not specified, the value is approximated from the instance type|
| extra-tags                  | key1=value1,key2=value2                           |                                                     | Tags attached to each dynamically provisioned resource|
| k8s-tag-cluster-id          | aws-cluster-id-1                                  |                                                     | ID of the Kubernetes cluster used for tagging provisioned EBS volumes|
| aws-sdk-debug-log           | true                                              | false                                               | If set to true, the driver will enable the aws sdk debug log level|
| logging-format              | json                                              | text                                                | Sets the log format. Permitted formats: text, json|
| user-agent-extra            | csi-ebs                                           | helm                                                | Extra string appended to user agent|
| enable-otel-tracing         | true                                              | false                                               | If set to true, the driver will enable opentelemetry tracing. Might need [additional env variables](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/configuration/sdk-environment-variables/#general-sdk-configuration) to export the traces to the right collector|
| batching                    | true                                              | true                                                | If set to true, the driver will enable batching of API calls. This is especially helpful for improving performance in workloads that are sensitive to EC2 rate limits at the cost of a small increase to worst-case latency|
| modify-volume-request-handler-timeout | 10s                                     | 2s                                                  | Timeout for the window in which volume modification calls must be received in order for them to coalesce into a single volume modification call to AWS. If changing this, be aware that the ebs-csi-controller's csi-resizer and volumemodifier containers both have timeouts on the calls they make, if this value exceeds those timeouts it will cause them to always fail and fall into a retry loop, so adjust those values accordingly.
| warn-on-invalid-tag         | true                                              | false                                               | To warn on invalid tags, instead of returning an error|
|reserved-volume-attachments  | 2                                                 | -1                                                  | Number of volume attachments reserved for system use. Not used when --volume-attach-limit is specified. When -1, the amount of reserved attachments is loaded from instance metadata that captured state at node boot and may include not only system disks but also CSI volumes.|

Commit message:

Document --metrics-{cert,key}-file in options.md
Signed-off-by: Connor Catlett <conncatl@amazon.com>

docs/options.md, after:

# Driver Options

There are a couple of driver options that can be passed as arguments when starting the driver container.

| Option argument             | value sample                                      | default                                             | Description         |
|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|---------------------|
| endpoint                    | tcp://127.0.0.1:10000/                            | unix:///var/lib/csi/sockets/pluginproxy/csi.sock    | The socket on which the driver will listen for CSI RPCs|
| http-endpoint               | :8080                                             |                                                     | The TCP network address where the HTTP server for metrics will listen (example: `:8080`). The default is empty string, which means the server is disabled.|
| metrics-cert-file           | /metrics.crt                                      |                                                     | The path to a certificate to use for serving the metrics server over HTTPS. If the certificate is signed by a certificate authority, this file should be the concatenation of the server's certificate, any intermediates, and the CA's certificate. If this is non-empty, `--http-endpoint` and `--metrics-key-file` MUST also be non-empty.|
| metrics-key-file            | /metrics.key                                      |                                                     | The path to a key to use for serving the metrics server over HTTPS. If this is non-empty, `--http-endpoint` and `--metrics-cert-file` MUST also be non-empty.|
| volume-attach-limit         | 1,2,3 ...                                         | -1                                                  | Value for the maximum number of volumes attachable per node. If specified, the limit applies to all nodes. If not specified, the value is approximated from the instance type|
| extra-tags                  | key1=value1,key2=value2                           |                                                     | Tags attached to each dynamically provisioned resource|
| k8s-tag-cluster-id          | aws-cluster-id-1                                  |                                                     | ID of the Kubernetes cluster used for tagging provisioned EBS volumes|
| aws-sdk-debug-log           | true                                              | false                                               | If set to true, the driver will enable the aws sdk debug log level|
| logging-format              | json                                              | text                                                | Sets the log format. Permitted formats: text, json|
| user-agent-extra            | csi-ebs                                           | helm                                                | Extra string appended to user agent|
| enable-otel-tracing         | true                                              | false                                               | If set to true, the driver will enable opentelemetry tracing. Might need [additional env variables](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/configuration/sdk-environment-variables/#general-sdk-configuration) to export the traces to the right collector|
| batching                    | true                                              | true                                                | If set to true, the driver will enable batching of API calls. This is especially helpful for improving performance in workloads that are sensitive to EC2 rate limits at the cost of a small increase to worst-case latency|
| modify-volume-request-handler-timeout | 10s                                     | 2s                                                  | Timeout for the window in which volume modification calls must be received in order for them to coalesce into a single volume modification call to AWS. If changing this, be aware that the ebs-csi-controller's csi-resizer and volumemodifier containers both have timeouts on the calls they make, if this value exceeds those timeouts it will cause them to always fail and fall into a retry loop, so adjust those values accordingly.
| warn-on-invalid-tag         | true                                              | false                                               | To warn on invalid tags, instead of returning an error|
|reserved-volume-attachments  | 2                                                 | -1                                                  | Number of volume attachments reserved for system use. Not used when --volume-attach-limit is specified. When -1, the amount of reserved attachments is loaded from instance metadata that captured state at node boot and may include not only system disks but also CSI volumes.|
